README.md, before:

# jsoo-react

Bindings to ReactJS for js_of_ocaml, including JSX ppx.

Adapted from [ReasonReact](https://github.com/reasonml/reason-react/).

## A word of caution

:construction: :construction: :construction: :construction: 

Very experimental / early stage. Not ready for consumption yet.

Only bindings to the most basic rendering functions and `useState` / `useReducer` exist.
The rest of the bindings are to be implemented yet.

## Ideas / decisions

- Abstract over Js_of_ocaml "native" types (`js_string `, `js_array`) as much as
possible behind the bindings. To do so, the library uses [`gen_js_api`](https://github.com/LexiFi/gen_js_api)
to convert from/to these types to their more idiomatic OCaml representation.
- Keep the API as close as possible to ReasonReact. This is useful for many reasons:
  - Battle tested.
  - Reduce cognitive load by leveraging ReasonReact knowledge.
  - Maximize potential reuse of existing components and libraries.

## Bindings

See [`interop.md`](./interop.md).

## Running the example

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jchavarri/jsoo-react/
cd ./jsoo-react
make dev
# in another tab / terminal session 
cd ./jsoo-react/example
yarn && yarn server
```

After that, open up `localhost:8000`. Then modify `App.re` file in `src` and refresh the page to see the changes. The example
will not work without server as it relies on history / client-side routing using `jsoo-react` router to navigate through the pages.

### Ppx

- `make test` to run the test against the expected result.
- `make test-regen` to regenerate OCaml file `test.ml` from Reason file `test_src.re` (ocaml-migrate-parsetree drivers don't support input files with Reason syntax).
- `make test-promote` to make

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to the authors and maintainers of ReasonReact, in particular @rickyvetter for his work on the v3 of the JSX ppx.
Thanks to the authors and maintainers of Js_of_ocaml, in particular @hhugo who has been answering many many questions in GitHub threads.
And thanks to the team behind React.js! What an amazing library :)

Commit message:

simplify tests by removing redundant intermediate .ml file (thanks @EduardoRFS and @davesnx for styled-ppx inspiration)

README.md, after:

# jsoo-react

Bindings to ReactJS for js_of_ocaml, including JSX ppx.

Adapted from [ReasonReact](https://github.com/reasonml/reason-react/).

## A word of caution

:construction: :construction: :construction: :construction: 

Very experimental / early stage. Not ready for consumption yet.

Only bindings to the most basic rendering functions and `useState` / `useReducer` exist.
The rest of the bindings are to be implemented yet.

## Ideas / decisions

- Abstract over Js_of_ocaml "native" types (`js_string `, `js_array`) as much as
possible behind the bindings. To do so, the library uses [`gen_js_api`](https://github.com/LexiFi/gen_js_api)
to convert from/to these types to their more idiomatic OCaml representation.
- Keep the API as close as possible to ReasonReact. This is useful for many reasons:
  - Battle tested.
  - Reduce cognitive load by leveraging ReasonReact knowledge.
  - Maximize potential reuse of existing components and libraries.

## Bindings

See [`interop.md`](./interop.md).

## Running the example

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jchavarri/jsoo-react/
cd ./jsoo-react
make dev
# in another tab / terminal session 
cd ./jsoo-react/example
yarn && yarn server
```

After that, open up `localhost:8000`. Then modify `App.re` file in `src` and refresh the page to see the changes. The example
will not work without server as it relies on history / client-side routing using `jsoo-react` router to navigate through the pages.

### Ppx

- `make test` to run the test against the expected result.
- `make test-promote` when you want to update the expected results.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to the authors and maintainers of ReasonReact, in particular @rickyvetter for his work on the v3 of the JSX ppx.
Thanks to the authors and maintainers of Js_of_ocaml, in particular @hhugo who has been answering many many questions in GitHub threads.
And thanks to the team behind React.js! What an amazing library :)
